Hello, and welcome to this course
on creating compelling websites,
websites that convert and
encourage people to take action.
My name is Paul Boag, and
over the next few hours,
we're gonna explore exactly what is
involved in creating a compelling website.
And I'm hoping you're gonna
join me on this journey.
And the idea is that what we're
gonna get into are techniques and
approaches we can use without having
to resort to things like dark patterns.
So we're gonna explore all these different
subject areas over the next few hours,
or maybe hopefully apply some of those
techniques to various websites so
you can actually see these
techniques in action.
But let me start off by talking
a little bit about myself and
my background and
why I'm doing this particular workshop.
So I've worked in digital
since about 1994,
which means that I have years
of experience of doing all kinds
of different aspects of
the web design process.
So when I started out,
I would do the whole thing from designs
to code to even writing the content.
But over the years, I've come to
specialize in user experience design and
in particular conversion
rate optimisation,
encouraging people to take
action on the websites.
But I was noticing an annoying trend,
which I'm sure you've noticed yourself,
which are websites that become
increasingly manipulative in the way
that they encourage you to take action.
And that really made me
deeply uncomfortable.
Because what I strongly believe that you
can actually create a compelling website
without having to resort to
those kinds of techniques, and
I ended up writing a book
on it called Click.
And Click basically proposes
an approach to creating compelling
websites that doesn't involve
that kind of manipulation.
And so that is essentially what we're
gonna be looking at over the next
few hours.
We're gonna look at how to
go about doing that, and
exactly what is involved in
creating a compelling website.
So very loosely, this is gonna be
our agenda for the coming hours.
We're gonna start off by looking
at the four pillars to conversion.
So these are kind of very practical
psychological elements of
our personality that we can use in order
to encourage people to take action.
Now, you might immediately be worried
that I'm starting to use psychology to
encourage people to take action, doesn't
that sound a lot like manipulation?
Well, you'll find out that actually that
isn't the case, and I'll explain why.
Then we're gonna look at how to
create a compelling offering.
So how to take whatever it is that
you're looking to promote and
structure it in such a way that's
actually compelling to people,
that is something that
they want to take part in.
And then after that, we're gonna
move into looking at design and
how design can shape our
perception of a product and
service and also can guide us
around the various content
in order to understand what
the product and service can offer us.
And then finally, we're gonna look at
how to go about optimising a website in
order to encourage conversion.
So that's the basic plan for the day.
Now, as you can tell,
this is covering a lot of different areas.
We're gonna be talking about copywriting.
We're gonna be talking about marketing.
We're gonna be talking about
user interface design.
We're gonna to be talking
about broader UX design, and
we're even gonna to be touching on
development a little bit as well.
So there's a huge amount of
different skill sets that
are required in order to
create a compelling website.
Fortunately, you don't need to be
an expert in all of these areas,
you only need to understand the basics in
each of them in order to be able to start
creating a compelling website.
Really, the techniques that I'm gonna be
sharing apply to pretty much any website.
I've worked on very small mom and
pop businesses over the years,
all the way up to working with
international brands like Puma,
or Doctors Without Borders,
those kinds of people.
And actually,
it works on pretty much any sector.
So whether you're a charity looking to
increase donations, or you're trying to
encourage people to sign up to your SAS
App, or whether you're selling products
on an e-commerce site, whatever the case,
these techniques are gonna help.
So I hope you're as excited as I
am about getting into all of this.
And let's begin then by looking at those
four psychological pillars to conversion
and how they're critical to your success
in encouraging people to take action.
>> Someone has mentioned the nudge
theory when you reference psychology.
>> Yeah, we're gonna talk about nudging
people to take action to some extent, but
that we're also gonna explore a whole load
of things about how our brains work and
how we have different
systems that make decisions.
And yeah, we're gonna get into that.
But the nudge book is an excellent
book that I highly recommend.
If you get into this kind of thing a
little bit more, you wanna learn a little
bit more about all of these areas,
then that's a really good book to read.
There's another one that I absolutely
love, called thinking fast,
thinking slow, that you guys
might wanna check out as well.